# Scripts — Variables

Pre-defined variables MyDefrag has a long list of pre-defined variables that you can use. They are dynamic variables, that is, they are automatically recalculated when they are used. Program and script Variable Units Description MyDefragVersion String MyDefrag version (for example "MyDefrag v4.0b4") WindowsVersion String Windows version (for example "v6.0 build 6000") Commandline String Commandline (for example "MyDefrag.exe -r Weekly.MyD") ExecutableDirectory String Executable directory, the directory where the currently running MyDefrag interpreter is located (for example "C:\Program Files\MyDefrag v4.3.1") WorkingDirectory String Working directory (for example "C:\Program Files\MyDefrag v4.3.1") ScriptDirectory String Script directory, the directory where the currently running script is located (for example "C:\Program Files\MyDefrag v4.3.1\Scripts") InstallDirectory String Install directory, where MyDefrag was installed (for example "C:\Program Files\MyDefrag v4.3.1") ProcessID Number Program ID (PID), for example "5816" ScriptTitle String Script title (see \* Title) ScriptDescription String Script description (see \* Description) Date String Date "year-month-day", for example "2010-12-31". Time String Time "hours-minutes-seconds", for example "12:27:01". RunTime String Elapsed real time (wall-time) since the program started, for example "2:05:18". Current volume Variable Units Description MountPoint String Mountpoint (for example "c:") VolumeName String VolumeName (for example "\\\Volume{08439462-3004-11da-bbca-806d6172696f}") VolumeType String VolumeType (for example "NTFS") VolumeSize bytes The size of the volume. VolumeSizeG Gigabytes VolumeFree bytes The amount of free space on the volume. VolumeFreeG Gigabytes VolumeFreeP Percentage VolumeUsed bytes The amount of used space on the volume. VolumeUsedG Gigabytes VolumeUsedP Percentage MftSize bytes The size of the \$MFT. BytesPerCluster bytes The size of a cluster. Windows uses disks in blocks called "clusters". Harddisks split the data in even smaller blocks, called "sectors". A clusters is 1 or more whole sectors, which is set by Windows when it formats the disk. The minimum size that a file will occupy is 1 cluster. Very small files on NTFS disks are stored in the MFT, and are then reported as occupying zero clusters. AverageBeginEndDistance Clusters Average end-begin distance. When Windows has finished reading a file then the harddisk heads will have to move to the beginning of whatever file is needed next. MyDefrag calculates the average distance from the end of every file to the beginning of every other file. A lower number means that the files are better packed together and can be accessed more quickly. The lowest possible average distance can be achieved by sorting by filesize. The formula does not take the disk geometry into account. Harddisks have circular tracks with varying numbers of sectors, but the formula calculates as if the harddisk is a linear list of sectors. AverageBeginEndDistanceP Percentage Volume: Files and directories by count The number of files and directories, fragmented and unfragmented. The percentages are the same number, but as the percentage of the total files and directories on the volume. Variable Units Description FILES000N Number The number of unfragmented files on the volume. FILES000P Percentage FILES010N Number The number of fragmented files on the volume. FILES010P Percentage FILES020N Number The number of files on the volume (fragmented + unfragmented). FILES020P Percentage FILES100N Number The number of unfragmented directories on the volume. FILES100P Percentage FILES110N Number The number of fragmented directories on the volume. FILES110P Percentage FILES120N Number The number of directories on the volume (fragmented + unfragmented). FILES120P Percentage FILES200N Number The number of unfragmented files and directories on the volume. FILES200P Percentage FILES210N Number The number of fragmented files and directories on the volume. FILES210P Percentage FILES220N Number The number of files and directories on the volume (fragmented + unfragmented). FILES220P Percentage Volume: Files and directories by occupied size The size of files without sparse space, in other words the space that files are actually occupying on disk. The percentages are the same number, but as the percentage of the total files and directories on the volume. Variable Units Description FILES002N Bytes The size of unfragmented files on the volume. FILES002G Gigabytes FILES002P Percentage FILES012N Bytes The size of fragmented files on the volume. FILES012G Gigabytes FILES012P Percentage FILES022N Bytes The size of all the fragmented + unfragmented files on the volume. FILES022G Gigabytes FILES022P Percentage FILES102N Bytes The size of all the unfragmented folders on the volume. FILES102G Gigabytes FILES102P Percentage FILES112N Bytes The size of all the fragmented folders on the volume. FILES112G Gigabytes FILES112P Percentage FILES122N Bytes The size of all the fragmented + unfragmented folders on the volume. FILES122G Gigabytes FILES122P Percentage FILES202N Bytes The size of all the fragmented files + folders on the volume. FILES202G Gigabytes FILES202P Percentage FILES212N Bytes The size of all the unfragmented files + folders on the volume. FILES212G Gigabytes FILES212P Percentage FILES222N Bytes The size of all the files + folders on the volume (fragmented + unfragmented). FILES222G Gigabytes FILES222P Percentage Volume: Files and directories by sparse size The size of files including sparse space. This is the size of files normally reported by Windows. It includes the space for empty (unused) blocks of data (in the files) that do not occupy space on disk. The percentages are the same number, but as the percentage of the total files and directories on the volume. Variable Units Description FILES001N Bytes The size of unfragmented files on the volume. FILES001G Gigabytes FILES001P Percentage FILES011N Bytes The size of fragmented files on the volume. FILES011G Gigabytes FILES011P Percentage FILES021N Bytes The size of all files on the volume (fragmented + unfragmented). FILES021G Gigabytes FILES021P Percentage FILES101N Bytes The size of all unfragmented folders on the volume. FILES101G Gigabytes FILES101P Percentage FILES111N Bytes The size of all fragmented folders on the volume. FILES111G Gigabytes FILES111P Percentage FILES121N Bytes The size of all folders on the volume (fragmented + unfragmented). FILES121G Gigabytes FILES121P Percentage FILES201N Bytes The size of all unfragmented files + folders on the volume. FILES201G Gigabytes FILES201P Percentage FILES211N Bytes The size of all fragmented files + folders on the volume. FILES211G Gigabytes FILES211P Percentage FILES221N Bytes The size of all files + folders on the volume (fragmented + unfragmented). FILES221G Gigabytes FILES221P Percentage Zone Variable Units Description ZoneNumber Count The current zone number (for example "3"). ZoneCount Count The number of zones (for example "6"). ProgressPercentage Number The percentage as shown in the status bar, which is the progress percentage from 0,0000 to 100,0000 for the current zone (floating-point number with 4 decimal digits). ZoneBegin Bytes The beginning of the zone, the number of bytes from the beginning of the disk. ZoneEnd Bytes The end of the zone, the number of bytes from the beginning of the disk. ZoneSize Bytes The size of the zone, the number of bytes occupied by all the items in the zone. Note: this includes unmovable items. MaxNextZoneBegin Bytes The maximum beginning of the next zone. This is basically the end of the disk minus the number of bytes in items that have not yet been placed. Zone: Files and directories by count The number of files and directories in the zone, fragmented and unfragmented. The percentages are the same number, but as the percentage of the total files and directories on the volume. Variable Units Description ZONE000N Number The number of unfragmented files in the zone. ZONE000P Percentage ZONE010N Number The number of fragmented files in the zone. ZONE010P Percentage ZONE020N Number The number of files in the zone (fragmented + unfragmented). ZONE020P Percentage ZONE100N Number The number of unfragmented folders in the zone. ZONE100P Percentage ZONE110N Number The number of fragmented folders in the zone. ZONE110P Percentage ZONE120N Number The number of folders in the zone (fragmented + unfragmented). ZONE120P Percentage ZONE200N Number The number of unfragmented files + folders in the zone. ZONE200P Percentage ZONE210N Number The number of fragmented files + folders in the zone. ZONE210P Percentage ZONE220N Number The number of files + folders in the zone (fragmented + unfragmented). ZONE220P Percentage Zone: Files and directories by occupied size The size of files in the zone without sparse space, in other words the space that files are actually occupying on disk. The percentages are the same number, but as the percentage of the total files and directories on the volume. Variable Units Description ZONE002N Bytes The size of unfragmented files in the zone. ZONE002G Gigabytes ZONE002P Percentage ZONE012N Bytes The size of fragmented files in the zone. ZONE012G Gigabytes ZONE012P Percentage ZONE022N Bytes The size of all files in the zone (fragmented + unfragmented). ZONE022G Gigabytes ZONE022P Percentage ZONE102N Bytes The size of unfragmented folders in the zone. ZONE102G Gigabytes ZONE102P Percentage ZONE112N Bytes The size of fragmented folders in the zone. ZONE112G Gigabytes ZONE112P Percentage ZONE122N Bytes The size of all folders in the zone (fragmented + unfragmented). ZONE122G Gigabytes ZONE122P Percentage ZONE202N Bytes The size of unfragmented files + folders in the zone. ZONE202G Gigabytes ZONE202P Percentage ZONE212N Bytes The size of fragmented files + folders in the zone. ZONE212G Gigabytes ZONE212P Percentage ZONE222N Bytes The size of all files + folders in the zone (fragmented + unfragmented). ZONE222G Gigabytes ZONE222P Percentage Zone: Files and directories by sparse size The size of files in the zone including sparse space. This is the size of files normally reported by Windows. It includes the space for empty (unused) blocks of data (in the files) that do not occupy space on disk. The percentages are the same number, but as the percentage of the total files and directories on the volume. Variable Units Description ZONE001N Bytes The size of unfragmented files in the zone. ZONE001G Gigabytes ZONE001P Percentage ZONE011N Bytes The size of fragmented files in the zone. ZONE011G Gigabytes ZONE011P Percentage ZONE021N Bytes The size of all files in the zone (fragmented + unfragmented). ZONE021G Gigabytes ZONE021P Percentage ZONE101N Bytes The size of unfragmented folders in the zone. ZONE101G Gigabytes ZONE101P Percentage ZONE111N Bytes The size of fragmented folders in the zone. ZONE111G Gigabytes ZONE111P Percentage ZONE121N Bytes The size of all folders in the zone (fragmented + unfragmented). ZONE121G Gigabytes ZONE121P Percentage ZONE201N Bytes The size of unfragmented files + folders in the zone. ZONE201G Gigabytes ZONE201P Percentage ZONE211N Bytes The size of fragmented files + folders in the zone. ZONE211G Gigabytes ZONE211P Percentage ZONE221N Bytes The size of all files + folders in the zone (fragmented + unfragmented). ZONE221G Gigabytes ZONE221P Percentage Gaps by count The number of gaps on the volume. The percentages are the same number, but as the percentage of the total gaps on the volume. The less gaps the better. More gaps will cause more fragmentation. The gap count will increase while defragmenting. The gap count will decrease while optimizing. Variable Units Description GAP01N Count The number of small gaps. Small gaps are gaps that are smaller than the average gap size (GAP13N). GAP01P Percentage GAP02N Count The number of big gaps. Big gaps are gaps that are bigger than the average gap size (GAP13N). GAP02P Percentage GAP00N Count All gaps. GAP00P Percentage Gaps by size Statistics about the size of the gaps on the volume. The percentages are the same number, but as the percentage of the total gaps on the volume. Variable Units Description GAP11N Bytes The size of the small gaps. Small gaps are gaps that are smaller than the average gap size (GAP13N). GAP11G Gigabytes GAP11P Percentage GAP12N Bytes The size of the big gaps. Big gaps are gaps that are bigger than the average gap size (GAP13N). GAP12G Gigabytes GAP12P Percentage GAP10N Bytes The size of all the gaps. GAP10G Gigabytes GAP10P Percentage GAP13N Bytes The average gap size. GAP13G Gigabytes GAP13P Percentage GAP14N Bytes The median gap size. This is the size of the gap in the middle of the list of sorted gap sizes. Half the gaps are smaller than this number, and the other half is bigger. GAP14G Gigabytes GAP14P Percentage GAP15N Bytes The size of the biggest gap. GAP15G Gigabytes GAP15P Percentage Unmovable items MyDefrag initially treats all files as movable, and will only mark an item as unmovable after the Microsoft defragmentation API has refused to move it. Variable Units Description UnmovablesList List List of unmovable items. The format of the list is fixed and cannot be changed. It contains 1 line per item (file, folder) with the number of fragments, the number of sparse bytes, the number of occupied clusters, and the full path of the item. UnmovablesTotalFragments Count Total of the "fragments" column. UnmovablesTotalBytes Bytes Total of the "bytes" column. UnmovablesTotalClusters Clusters Total of the "clusters" column. Fragmented items Variable Units Description FragmentedList List List of fragmented items. The format of the list is fixed and cannot be changed. It contains 1 line per item (file, folder) with the number of fragments, the number of sparse bytes, the number of occupied clusters, and the full path of the item. FragmentedTotalFragments Count Total of the "fragments" column. FragmentedTotalBytes Bytes Total of the "bytes" column. FragmentedTotalClusters Clusters Total of the "clusters" column. The 25 largest items Variable Units Description LargestItemsList List List of the 25 largest items on the volume. The format of the list is fixed and cannot be changed. It contains 1 line per item (file, folder) with the number of fragments, the number of sparse bytes, the number of occupied clusters, and the full path of the item. LargestItemsTotalFragments Count Total of the "fragments" column. LargestItemsTotalBytes Bytes Total of the "bytes" column. LargestItemsTotalClusters Clusters Total of the "clusters" column. Bad cluster list Windows will add disk clusters to the "\$BadClus:\$Bad:\$DATA" system file when it detects a hardware error. If the list begins to grow then you should immediately replace the disk. Variable Units Description BadClusterList List List of bad clusters. The format of the list is fixed and cannot be changed. It contains 1 line per block of clusters with the number of clusters and the LCN (Logical Cluster Number) on the disk. BadClusterTotal Count Total of the "clusters" column. Memory usage Statistics about the memory in use by the program. Variable Units Description MemoryHeapBytes Bytes Heap memory MemoryHeapItems Count Heap items MemoryVolumes Bytes Volumes MemoryItems Bytes Items (files, directories) MemoryFileNames Bytes Filenames MemoryFullPaths Bytes FullPaths MemoryExtends Bytes Extends (fragments) MemoryContext Bytes Context

---

_Source HTML: `Scripts-Variables.html`_
